This project was designed to display in different ways the frequency at which items were purchased from a grocery store. This is done by reading a file that displays the items bought at the grocery store in one day and storing the item in a list (map) with the frequency at which each item appears in the file. There are several functions impletmented that allow the user to check for items and see their frequency. The user may then search for an item and see if the item is present in the list, and if so they may see how many times that item was bought in one day. The user may also print a list of the items present in the file alongside the frequency in which the items appear in the list. Two different functions do this, with one displaying the frequency as a numeric value and the other displaying the frequency as a histogram. The fourth user option allows the user to quit the program if the number 4 is entered at the main menu.

In this project, I feel I did a good job of encapsulating the different functions of the program, making the main file easier to read and the entirety of the code easier to navigate. The main functions of the program are declared in one file and defined in another, as they should be to follow the principles of object-oriented programming. I also created a function to read the contents of an input file and save its contents as objects in a map, with this function taking the file name as a parameter. I wrote another function to create a new file and store the items present in the map created by the input file function into the new file, along with the item's frequencies. The other aspect of this program that I am proud of is that the inline comments in the program are thorough and descriptive.

My code in this project could be enhanced by implementing user input validation. Without validation of the user's input when the user is prompted to enter a value between 1 and 4, there is the possibility that incorrect input may cause the program to malfunction. With input validation, the program could loop freely without bugs and allow the console to simply prompt the user for correct input if invalid input is given. I also feel that in the definition of the printHistogram function, I could have possibly found a way to simplify this function's definition by using the data already stored in the map that was created when the input file was read. Instead, this function takes input from the input file again and loops to display its contents with their frequencies.

The most challenging bit of code to write for this program was undoubtedly the printHistogram function. I did the best I could to find a solution that would work off of the data that was already stored in the Groceries map, but I could not find a way to represent the value for each key as a string of asterisks. I instead opted to reread the input from the input file and loop to take in the items' names and increment their frequencies. The second most challenging bit of code to write for this project was within the main.cpp file, getting the program to loop until the user quits WITHOUT causing the printInventory function to mulfunction. I originally placed the main functions of the main file in a while loop that would iterate while the user did not enter the number 4, but this caused the printInventory function to loop infinitely. The solution was to switch the while loop for a do-while loop that iterated while the user did not enter 4. The biggest tool that helped me work through these issues was to slowly read each part of the program out loud to myself and explain what is happening. My main issues stemmed from logic errors, and speaking the code's functionality aloud made it very easy to see which parts of the program design were illogical.

The most tranferrable skills that I have developed throughout this project is the experience in developing an object-oriented program, the experience gained through writing code and troublshooting it until it runs smoothly, and the skill of thinking critically of a program's design to reduce and eliminate logic errors. These skills and experience will play a large role in my ability to develop programs in the future as they are essential to developing programs that are easy to navigate and run as intended.

This program was made readable by reserving specific files for the declaration of functions, the definitions of functions, and the main file as well as leaving thorough comments throughout the program to explain what each part does. The adaptability and maintainability of this program stem from that design as well, in addition to the fact that the main.cpp is organized and concise which makes it easy to navigate and edit. The inputFile and outputFile functions are perhaps the most adaptable because of the fact that they take a file name as a parameter, allowing the functions in the program to be used on different files by simply entering a different file name in main.cpp. The printMenu function also improves the adaptability of this program as the menu screen can be altered by simply changing parts of the function definition.
